Create exercise-10.2-Add-a-Menu-item-from-standard-page.md (#80)
govcms-training/content-admin: unit-10-managing-site-navigations-and-breadcrumbs/exercise-10.2-Add-a-Menu-item-from-standard-page.md

# Exercise 10.2: Add a Menu item from a _Standard page_

> In this exercise you will learn how to add a menu item from a _Standard page_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this exercise you will learn how to create a menu item in the main navigation menu of the site, which links to an existing page.
```

> 1. Navigate to a Standard Page by clicking on _Content_ in the _Admin menu_ and clicking on a page in the list of type _Standard page_.
> 2. Click on the **Edit** menu item.
> 3. In the RHS click **Menu settings** item to expand the item.
> 4. Click **Provide a menu link**
> 5. Type in a _Menu link title_. For example add the text 'Example menu item'
> 6. Select Main navigation_ in the _Parent Item_ dropdown
> 7. Set _Published_
> 8. Click **Save**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the content management listing, by clicking on the _Content_ option in the _Admin menu_.
2. Locate a piece of content that is of type "Standard page":
   - either try to spot one by looking in the "Content type" column in the table,
   - or use the filtering section above the table, to select "Standard page" as the content type, and then click the "Filter" button.
3. Once you have spotted a piece of content of type "Standard page", click on the link with its name/title (in the "Title" column). That should take you to the actual page where this content lives on the site.
   **Tip**: notice how the "View" horizontal tab above the page title is highlighted, to indicate that you are _viewing_ the content.
4. Click the "Edit" option in the list of horizontal tabs. That should take you to the edit form for this piece of content.
   **Tip**: notice how the "Edit" tab is highlighted now, to indicate that you are _editing_ the content.
5. In the right-hand sidebar, click the "Menu settings" option to expand it.
   **Tip**: if you do not see the "Menu settings" option, then it means that you have selected a type of content that does not allow for menu options. Go back to step 2 of this exercise, and make sure that you select a piece of content that is of type "Standard page".
6. With the "Menu settings" option expanded, click the "Provide a menu link" checkbox/switch. That action should reveal further options/settings.
7. The "Menu link title" setting is by default pre-populated with the title of the piece of content you are editing. You can choose to leave it as is, or change it to something more unique (for example add the text 'Example menu item').
   **Tip**: Page titles may often be lengthy, but with menu items it is best practice to keep them short. Consider a page on your site with a title of "More information about Our Agency". When creating a menu item for this page on the main navigation of your site, you may want to have the title of the menu be "About us", or simply "About".
8. In the "Parent Item" dropdown, select the "<Main navigation>" option.
9. Make sure that the "Current state" option at the top of the right-hand sidebar is set to "Published". If not, then use the "Change to" select to change it to that.
10. Click the "Save" button at the top-right of the page.
```

6. With the "Menu settings" option expanded, click the "Provide a menu link" checkbox/switch. That action should reveal further options/settings.
7. The "Menu link title" setting is by default pre-populated with the title of the piece of content you are editing. You can choose to leave it as is, or change it to something more unique (for example add the text 'Example menu item').
   **Tip**: Page titles may often be lengthy, but with menu items it is best practice to keep them short. Consider a page on your site with a title of "More information about Our Agency". When creating a menu item for this page on the main navigation of your site, you may want to have the title of the menu be "About us", or simply "About".
8. In the "Parent Item" dropdown, select the "<Main navigation>" option.
9. Make sure that the "Current state" option at the top of the right-hand sidebar is set to "Published". If not, then use the "Change to" select to change it to that.
10. Click the "Save" button at the top-right of the page.

>    ![Image of Standard Page add menu item](../.gitbook/assets/Ex-10-1-Menus-Standard-page-1.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![Image of Standard Page add menu item](../.gitbook/assets/Ex-10-1-Menus-Standard-page-1.png)
```

6. With the "Menu settings" option expanded, click the "Provide a menu link" checkbox/switch. That action should reveal further options/settings.
7. The "Menu link title" setting is by default pre-populated with the title of the piece of content you are editing. You can choose to leave it as is, or change it to something more unique (for example add the text 'Example menu item').
   **Tip**: Page titles may often be lengthy, but with menu items it is best practice to keep them short. Consider a page on your site with a title of "More information about Our Agency". When creating a menu item for this page on the main navigation of your site, you may want to have the title of the menu be "About us", or simply "About".
8. In the "Parent Item" dropdown, select the "<Main navigation>" option.
9. Make sure that the "Current state" option at the top of the right-hand sidebar is set to "Published". If not, then use the "Change to" select to change it to that.
10. Click the "Save" button at the top-right of the page.

> 
>     ![Image of Standard Page add menu item](../.gitbook/assets/Ex-10-1-Menus-Standard-page-1.png)
> 
> 9. Click on the **Home** item in the breadcrumbs at the top left of the page.
> 10. Review the change to the menu in the _Main navigation_. You should see the new menu item 'Example menu item' in the menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ![Image of Standard Page add menu item](../.gitbook/assets/Ex-10-1-Menus-Standard-page-1.png)
11. Click on the "Home" item in the breadcrumbs at the top-left of the page, to navigate back to the front-end of the site.
12. Review the change to the menu in the _Main navigation_ (you should see the new menu item 'Example menu item' in the menu).
```
